>> Brian Holt: We are gonna do
a Java Scripts, HTML, CSS project.
The calculator, this is difficult by
the way, this is not an easy thing to do.
I purposely gave you something
that was a little difficult,
working through a calculator involves
thinking through how a calculator works.
So, you have this object,
you've used it in your entire life, and
now you have to deconstruct it.
What is actually happening, how is this
like mechanically-logically working?
So that's on purpose,
it's a useful exercise, so
definitely make sure you give it a shot.
So first let's do the HTML, and
CSS, and JavaScript, parts of it.
So I'm gonna close that.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna open a new file.
So a new folder.
It's gonna be called calculator.
And I'm gonna open this with VS Code.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
first thing I need to do,
is I need an index.html.
>> Brian Holt: Inside of calculator,
index.html.
Okay I'm gonna do html:5, cuz I'm lazy.
>> Brian Holt: And
this is going to be a calculator,
something like that, okay?
So, let's see how I.
I actually do it just
have it up here because,
there's no way I can
write this from memory.
So, first thing I'm gonna do
up here is I'm gonna write
a link tag to get ./calculator.css.
I'm gonna do just a div for
the whole thing called calc.
So that's gonna be,
everything's gonna be inside of this.
I'm gonna do a section for
the screen.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
I'm just gonna make that
0 to start out with.
Then I'm gonna do a section for
the calc buttons
>> Brian Holt: I'm
gonna do three different, or,
how many rows do I have here, four?
Five rows, so
inside of here I'm gonna do .calc row,
I'm gonna do four of them.
And inside that, well,
let's just do that, times 4.
Well, this actually would be very useful.
So, with this Emmet shorthand
that I'm showing you,
you can actually put things
inside of it as well.
So if you put the arrow, remember how
we did the Lawren Epson text before.
Inside of that I'm gonna put
some buttons with a calc-button.
And I'm gonna put four
of those in each row as
well.
>> Brian Holt: So
you can see here this generates
quite a bit of HTML for you.
It's really nice that I don't
have to keep copying and
pasting this over and over again.
You do not have to learn Emmet, but for
me this is really fast cuz I can generate
a bunch of stuff really quickly.
The top row only needs three buttons.
And the bottom row only needs two buttons.
The reason being, if you remember,
where is my screen.
Right, three buttons for
this one, this is a double.
And three buttons for that one.
>> Brian Holt: So, let's go over here.
So the first one on this
one's gonna be a double.
And this one on the bottom is a triple.
Yeah, call that one a triple.
Okay, we'll go through each one of these.
And just do, that's a capital C for clear.
If you hit, on Mac, at least,
Ctrl+Command+Space,
it'll bring up a selector thing so
you can select what you need.
I need the left arrow, right?
I need a left arrow.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna scroll and find the left arrow.
And I double click on that, and
it inserts that here into my HTML, so
now I have a left arrow.
And this is gonna be a divide sign,
so I need to get a divide sign.
Or a division sign, rather.
So there's a division sign.
7, 8,
9, and then a multiplication sign,
which you could just put an x there.
That's actually not a real
multiplication sign.
That is a real multiplication sign, so
we're going to put that in there.
>> Brian Holt: Then 4, 5, 6.
4, 5, 6, and then a minus.
And then lastly we wanna put 0 as
the triple button, and then an equal sign.
>> Brian Holt: So that's all of our HTML.
If we go, and let's open this and
open calculator index.html.
Pretty cool little calculator.
Little tiny thing up there.
So let's go do some HTML and
CSS, see what that looks like.
We can bring in the CSS here.
>> Brian Holt: So,
leave that up and come over here.
Make a new file.
Calculator.css.
>> Brian Holt: And,
first thing we do,
I'm gonna put that box size in border-box.
That's gonna be really helpful
in this particular case.
Border-box, then I'm gonna do body,
then I'm gonna do padding:0; and
margin:0;.
Body by default has some padding against
the side, and didn't really want that,
so we are getting rid of that.
For .calc I made it width 400 pixels,
and just had a fixed width.
Background color.
Just made that a straight black.
And color, white, okay?
So that's gonna cover
all of our font needs.
For the screen, font size 40 pixels.
Some size.
You could probably make it even
a little bit bigger if you wanted to.
Font-family.
I'm going to just use one of them
that the VS Code has for me.
There's one that it has with Courier New.
So the top one here.
So it's going to be Courier New, Courier,
and if it doesn't find that either,
it's just gonna give up and do monospace
>> Brian Holt: So there's three or
four of them that you can guarantee
the browser has, for sure.
There's font-family, there's serif,
it will definitely have a serif font.
There's sans-serif,
monospace,
>> Brian Holt: Cursive.
>> Brian Holt: I can't remember,
there might be a couple more.
Really, it's monospace,
serif, and sans serif.
Those are the ones you have to care about.
>> Brian Holt: Text-align, right.
Cuz you want it to be right-aligned,
right?
If that makes sense.
Padding, I want 20 pixels on top and
5 pixels on the side.
So, that will be good for the screen.
So let's see how we are at so far.
>> Brian Holt: Getting there,
right?
>> Brian Holt: This looks
correct.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now we do the calc buttons.
>> Brian Holt: Calc-button,
>> Brian Holt: background-color.
>> Brian Holt: I just grabbed something
off the internet of how
it is actually d8d9db.
>> Brian Holt: Is that correct?
d8d9db that's what I got, okay.
color: black; height: 100px; width: 24.5%;
the reason why we're doing
24.5% is we want that little,
tiny black gutter.
>> Brian Holt: border: none,
you have to remove borders from buttons.
>> Brian Holt: border-radius,
we also change that to 0,
border-radius is rounding corners.
If you give it like a 5 pixels, it will
have like a 5 pixel radius at the corners.
Buttons by default, have a little bit
of rounding at the top of it, and
we're trying to get rid of that,
cuz we want it to be nice and
square.
>> Brian Holt: font-size: 40px;,
cursor: pointer;.
So let's show you what that is,
okay, this looks nice.
So, notice this has no random corner and
notice my miles when I over
the button it changes to a pointer.
That's how you let people know this
is a clickable thing, right, and
that's what you want.
You want people to think like,
you want them to look at that and say,
I can click on that.
And so that pointer is just like little
indication with over is like, okay,
cool, yeah I can click on that.
So just a little helpful thing for people
to recognize that they can click on it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
calc-button:hover.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're just gonna change the background
color a little bit color.
When people hover over things,
you make it just a little bit lighter as
well.
>> Brian Holt: And
this will as well make them think
that they can click on it, right?
That's probably really subtle and a little
hard for you to see on the projector but
I guarantee you it is changing colors
here, at least decently enough that I can
tell.
>> Brian Holt: Okay calc button:active,
active is what happens
when it's pushed down.
You wanna make it darker so people know
that they're pushing something down.
>> Brian Holt: bbbcbe.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now if I come over
here and push, maybe I'll see that it
gets a little bit that it gets darker.
>> Brian Holt: So something like this,
you wanna be really careful that you
choose colors with high contrast, right?
So if I do came in here and
say color white, just to make an example.
>> Brian Holt: You can't see that,
at all, can you?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I can see
it a little bit, to the point that it's
mostly readable on my screen right here,
but this is an excellent
example of why having high
contrast is very important because on
that screen, you really can't tell.
So there's a standard called AA,
it's put out by the government
of Ontario if I'm not mistaking.
But pretty much the whole internet adheres
to the systemic cuz it's really good.
You wanna have a certain amount of
contrast between your colors so
that people that have some sort of
disability with color can still see it.
So, there's plenty of things on
the Internet they say like I said,
just search for like,
AA access, or A11Y so, colors.
A11Y stands for accessibility,
the reason why it's that is there
is A then eleven letters and Y.
I don't wanna write accessibility
cuz I spell it wrong every time.
So that's why they write A11Y,
so color contrast checker,
this one works fine.
>> Brian Holt: And then so
you can see here for normal text, blue on
white passes but if I go too light, so you
can see that it fails right about there.
>> Brian Holt: So this right here, believe
it or not fails accessibility, it's
pretty readable even right there, right?
But someone that had certain types of,
like,
color blindness might not be able to
read that very well, so that's why.
There's triple A, triple A is a little
bit more strict than double A,
for the most part, most people do not do
triple A, usually double A is plenty.
And notice that this still passes, so if
we had this color and it was large text,
it still passes.
So you get a little bit more leeway
the larger the text is, just so
you know.
>> Brian Holt: Always check this,
always do this, it's the responsible,
ethical thing to do.
>> Brian Holt: So
this is not responsible nor ethical.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go back to black.
>> Brian Holt: Now you
might say like well the change from hover
is not really that big of a difference,
someone that's colorblind
might not be able to see that,
that's like more okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it's not gonna prevent
someone from using the site.
Someone not being able to read something,
that prevents someone from reading
the site or using the site rather.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
double,
>> Brian Holt: I did some guessing and
checking I'm gonna save you that process,
but
this width ends up being 49.7% to
get the right kind of margins.
And then triple ended up being
width 74.8%, 74.8%
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
now we need to get these so
that they're on the same
line.
>> Brian Holt: Where's my
flex on this?
>> Brian Holt: That's
down further.
>> Brian Holt: So, let's just put that on
right now, we're gonna put,
>> Brian Holt: calc-button-raw,
and this is gonna be display: flex.
align-content: stretch,
cuz we want them to be the same height.
That's actually not gonna do anything
cuz they all have heights anyway but,
nonetheless we're gonna do stretch.
justify content: space-between, right?
Because we want it to go all
the way to the edges and
then have all the gutters in the middle.
>> Brian Holt: And
margin-bottom to be about 0.5%.
>> Brian Holt: calc-row is what I called
it, I'm sorry.
>> Brian Holt: Okay that got a little bit
more dense, it's what we wanted.
It's starting to look more and
more what we want it to look like.
>> Brian Holt: We did that, we did that.
So the last thing that we're gonna do
up here where we did all the colors,
this one right here.
[COUGH] So we want to change calc-button,
but we wanna change the last one of them,
right?
The last one in the row to be orange,
So, how is this nice effect of everything
being orange on this last row.
And so we're gonna use last-child, right?
We want that background color
to be more of an orangey color.
So, that's gonna be df974c,
and that's a nice orange color.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, right?
Just so you know, this does have a color
picker, how do you get it to come up?
I think you just hover it,
yeah, there you go.
So you can actually just mess
with the color picker right here.
This is something that's built
into code but that's really nice,
right?
>> Brian Holt: Something else is you can
combine these pseudo elements or
pseudo classes rather.
So a calc-button:last-child, and
then I can do :hover as well,
to get the hover effect.
And I'm just gonna make that a little
bit lighter for the same reasons.
So background color dfb07e,
hit that pound.
We also wanted to make the color
white here, color, white.
And gonna give it a darker one as well for
calc-button:last child:active.
And that background color,
it's gonna be a little bit darker.
It's gonna be dd8d37.
>> Brian Holt: So refreshing,
now if you hover, you can probably see
that it gets a little bit lighter.
If you push on it, it gets darker.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, right?
Another note on accessibility.
Notice when I click on this,
there's a little blue glow around it.
People try to remove this,
there is a CSS property to remove,
this is called appearance.
Don't and never, never do that.
The reason why is because when
people are tabbing around your site.
So I'm hitting tab right now and moving,
you can see the blue outline moving.
People that can't use mice
have to do it this way.
This is how they move around the site.
And so if you say appearance none,
they can't tell where they are, right?
So even though you find that like it
doesn't fill in with your aesthetic or
whatever, you should never,
never remove it.
And if anyone tells you to remove it,
throw your laptop at them.
That's effective.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, that's effective.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we have this nicely
laid out calculator.
With all the gutters are looking nice.
It's kinda well spaced out,
everything kinda fits together, and
nothing I showedyou here is revolutionary,
right?
It's all just a combination of various
things that I've taught you already.
Now, if it wasn't immediately apparent
to you how to solve this problem,
that's okay.
Because I've shown you a bunch
of different tools, and
I really haven't much shown you how
all the tools work together yet.
This is very much a bunch of properties
working together to create this
synthetic hole.
And that just comes from
doing it lots of times, okay?
So this is just practice.
But, if I'm you in your position,
it's pretty cool you can sit there and
think as I have the tools,
I know how to do there, I can get this.
I just have to do a little bit more
experience before I figure out
how I can put the things that I know
together to get this sort of things.
Okay, so that's it for our CSS.
>> Brian Holt: So
what we're gonna do now is
we're going to come in and
do the JavaScripts.
>> Speaker 3: Can I ask a question really
quick?
>> Brian Holt: Please.
>> Speaker 3: What part of the calculator
does the double and
the triple affect with the percentages,
what can you do?
>> Brian Holt: This one's a double right,
so it's a double wide button, and
this is triple wide.
>> Speaker 3: Okay and then, okay so
you just instead of,
is there a way to tell it to say hey,
wherever the 6 ends for example,
that's where we want the 0 to end?
Or is this we can do here?
>> Brian Holt: Yes, that's called grid.
And so that's the new technique that you
can basically say I have this grid that's
that would be like a four by four grid,
right, four by four?
Four by four grid, right?
And inside of that grid I want this
one to take up 2 at the top left, and
you just kind of laid out how you would
lay out a spreadsheet, pretty much.
And then, it will just kind of
lay itself out like a rigid grid.
So that's how I would
definitely use a grid for that.
For using Flex, you can also try and
use the Flex number system
that I was showing you before.
It's hard to get that to line
out on a hard grid like this.
It's really important that
these gutters line up,
otherwise it looks really strange.
So that's why I'm using
hard percentages of width.
Does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 3: Mm-hm.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
That's a good question.